codeintel: Add experimental docs to enable auto-indexing (#25764)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/code_intelligence/references/auto_indexing_configuration.md

</aside>

This document details the expected contents of [explicit index job configuration](../how-to/configure_auto_indexing.md#explicit-index-job-configuration) for a particular repository. Depending on how this configuration is supplied, it may be encoded as YAML or JSON.

## Keys

The root of the configuration has two top-level keys, `index_jobs` and `shared_steps`, documented below.

### [`index_jobs`](#index-jobs)

The index jobs field defines a set of [index job objects](#index-job-object) describing the actions to perform to successfully index a fresh clone of a repository. Each index job is executed independently (and possibly in parallel) by an executor.

### [`shared_steps`](#shared-steps)

The shared steps field defines an ordered sequence of pre-indexing actions (formatted as a [Docker step object](#docker-step-object)). Each step is executed before each index job is executed. Shared steps are executed individually once _per indexing job_ and are designed to be used as a way of sharing code and common configuration for projects within a repository (but are not designed as a way to share compute resources).

## Examples

> In the following example, we have a repository configured to index three different projects: `cmd/foo`, `cmd/bar`, and `cmd/baz`. These projects are executed concurrently by free executor processes. Each index job shares a common setup step that runs a `setup.sh` script in the root of the repository and installs Go dependencies. The index job for `cmd/bar` additionally require sa codegen step, which is performed after the shared step but before the indexer invocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, we have a repository configured to index three different projects: `cmd/foo`, `cmd/bar`, and `cmd/baz`. These projects are executed concurrently by available executor processes. Each index job shares an initial step that runs a `setup.sh` script in the root of the repository and installs Go dependencies. The index job for `cmd/bar` additionally requires a code generation step, which is performed after the shared step but before the indexer invocation.
```

```yaml
shared_steps:
  image: sourcegraph/lsif-go
  commands:
    - ./setup.sh      # Run a custom setup script
    - go mod download # Download dependencies

index_jobs:
  # Index cmd/foo
  - indexer: sourcegraph/lsif-go
    root: cmd/foo

  # Index cmd/bar
  # Requires an additional codegen step
  - indexer: sourcegraph/lsif-go
    steps:
      - image: sourcegraph/lsif-go
        commands:
          - go generate ./...
        root: cmd/bar
    root: cmd/bar
  
  # Index cmd/baz
  - indexer: sourcegraph/lsif-go
    root: cmd/baz
```

## Index job object

> Each configured index job is run by a single executor process and multiple index jobs configured for the same repository may be executed by different executor instances, out of order, and possibly in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each configured index job is run by a single executor process. Multiple index jobs configured for the same repository may be executed by different executor instances, out of order, and possibly in parallel.
```

The basic outline of an index job is as follows.

1. The target repository is cloned into the job's workspace
2. Pre-indexing steps (if configured) executed in individual Docker container that volume mount the workspace
3. A Docker container for the indexer is started
4. Local steps (if configured) are executed within the running container
5. The indexer is invoked within the running container to produce an index artifact

> 6. The src cli is invoked to upload the index artifact to the Sourcegraph instance

Reviewer: Content: The wording here seems a little unclear (especially point 2 seems quite compressed). The Docker container in step 3 is different from the one in step 2, right? If so, having "new" or "separate" in point 3 would be useful.

Style:
1. Each point sounds like a full sentence, so maybe you want to end them with periods.
2. It feels like `src` should be in backticks because it is referring to a binary; I don't know if we have any style guidelines around this.
3. "CLI" should probably be all caps.

Author: Filled this content out a bit more.

An ordered sequence of commands to execute within a container running the configured indexer image. These commands are passed directly into the target container via `docker exec`, one at a time. Local steps should be used over Docker steps when the intended side effects alter state outside of the workspace on disk (e.g., setting up environment variables or installing OS packages require by the indexer tool).

#### [`indexer_args`](#index-job-indexer-args)

An ordered sequence of arguments that make up the indexing command. The indexing command is passed directly into the target container via `docker exec`. This step is expected to produce a precise code intelligence index artifact (as described by the `root` and `outfile` fields, described below).

#### [`root`](#index-job-root)

The working directory within the Docker container where the provided local steps and indexer commands are executed. This working directory is relative to the root of the target repository. An empty value (the default) indicates the root of the repository. This is also the directory relative to the path where the precise code intelligence index artifact is produced.

#### [`outfile`](#index-job-outfile)

> The path to the precise code intelligence index artifact produced by the indexer, which is uploaded to the target Sourcegraph instance via src-cli after the index step has completed successfully. This path is relative to the index job `root` (defined above). If not supplied, the value is assumed to be `dump.lsif` (which is the default artifact name of many indexers).

Reviewer: Nit: Is there a specific reason to use "src-cli" here and "src cli" earlier?

Author: <3 chaos

Supply this argument when the target indexer produces a differently named artifact. Alternatively, some indexers provide flags to change the artifact name; in which case `dump.lsif` can be supplied there and a value for this key can be omitted.

### Examples

The following example uses the Docker image `sourcegraph/lsif-go` pinned at the tag `v1.6.7` and additionally secured with an image digest. This index configuration runs the Go indexer with quiet output in the `dev/sg` directory and uploads the resulting index file (`dump.lsif` by default).

```yaml
indexer: sourcegraph/lsif-go:v1.6.7@sha256::9c2d9cf...1baed2b

# sourcegraph/lsif-go does not define a Docker entrypoint, so we need to
# indicate which binary to invoke (along with any additional arguments).
# Here, -q and --no-animation are lsif-go flags that control verbosity.
indexer_args:
  - lsif-go
  - -q
  - --no-animation

root: dev/sg
```

> The following example uses the Docker image `sourcegraph/lsif-node` pinned at the tag `autoindex`. This index configuration will run `npm install` followed by the TypeScript indexer in the `editors/code` directory. In this job, the `npm install` and the `lsif-tsc` are performed using the same workspace, but are invoked in different Docker containers. Both containers happen to be based on the same image, but that's not necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the Docker image `sourcegraph/lsif-node` pinned at the tag `autoindex`. This index configuration will run `npm install` followed by the TypeScript indexer `lsif-tsc` in the `editors/code` directory. In this job, both commands run in the same workspace, but are invoked in different Docker containers. Both containers happen to be based on the same image, but that's not necessary.
```
